have you ever Googled what's the best
time of day or day of week to generate a
sale hi guys I'm Ed leak and today I'm
going to talk about day parting and
looking through your AdWords data how to
an identify and answer that very
question uh this question actually came
about and the idea for this video from a
client who requested that we turn off
their AdWords at um certain days and
certain times the week and I wanted to
look through their data and make sure
that we weren't doing that based on
assumptions
so I'm now in the AdWords account in
question and I'm on the dimensions tab
so what I want to do is drop into the
the drop down over here and go to time
and day of
week and what you can see is you get
your week uh each day of the week uh
including weekends and it gives you a
really quick overview of you know your
key metrics essentially but you'll
notice here I've got all conversions and
conversion uh converted clicks so
there's a disparity and this is a
question that I've been asked before why
are all conversions higher than
converted clicks we typically use
converted clicks for most accounts
because they they're trying to consider
a single visit as a conversion even if
there's multiple actions so for example
if I click on an advert I come to your
website I activate the chat facility to
have you know to ask a question about
your product or service and you're
tracking that conversion that will go
into the all conversions column if you
then you know check out buy a product or
pick the phone up and you're tracking
phone calls that will be added to the to
the conversion total however it was one
visit so for us a lot of the time the
most accurate thing to do is look at
converted clicks okay and this this
account um Target CPA or cost per
conversion is actually 20 20 Sterling
should I say Saturday is already over
but that's for all of Saturday let's
look at the drop down again and go to
time hour
day and then you get a view of each hour
in the day but again this this can throw
up some problems because you've got
you're taking into account every single
day of the week here and then all of a
sudden your conversion values are
starting to go all over the place so
let's get a bit more clarity on these
numbers um what we want to do is
download this data and because we're on
hour of day we want to segment it by day
of week so we go to
time day of week grab that download
and then open that in
Excel okay so now we've got the data in
Excel we want to highlight all Fields
all cells uh go to insert and pivot
table and that's just confirming the
range click okay uh then we want to
construct the pivot table so there's
three components here uh day of week in
your uh I'm going to do that in columns
actually beg your pardon um day of week
columns hour of day in the row section
and then I'm interested in cost
converted clicks so just want to edit
that field setting to be sum which gives
us the absolute value um and then just
quickly tidy this up so let's click the
drop down on the First Column here and
remove any blank there we go and for the
weekday so we just don't want the total
or the blank we just want the weekdays
here um I also like for some reason I I
don't like the uh table touching the
side of the sheet yeah weird don't know
why um we want to get rid of these Grand
totals because they're meaningless to us
so go to the design tab at the
top and off and that just tidies it up
but even so this is quite a lot of data
to analyze as is so let's highlight the
days an hour of days go to conditional
formatting and let's put a a sort of
color scale on here so we're going from
Red down to Green cuz red
being uh high cost which we don't want
I'm also going to just tidy this up a
little bit like that centralize it it's
a bit
easier you'll probably find this if
you've got any zero conversion data or
not if you're British like me some norts
in here um it's going to skew this
conditional formatting because it's it's
done on a percentile basis so let's just
sort sort that out so it's more visually
useful more visually appealing to us
double click that so as I said uh cost
per acquisition on this account is 20 so
I'm going to set that as the
midpoint I'm going to set the lowest
values in percentile so I'm going to go
for the bottom sort of 15% that bumps
the color range up uh so these these
zeros don't take too much um sway over
that and the same at the top end to
compensate so I'm going to do 85 um um
there's no rule of thumb to this this is
this is visualization essentially so
you'll see what happens if you see
now we got a much clearer View and
immediately Saturday and Sunday are not
looking too good are they and I should
and also as you can see here across this
uh row we've got um 6:
a.m. across every single day of the week
6:00 a.m. is underperforming we're over
our Target of 20 uh cost per
conversion so what would I do this data
well oh yeah KY look at that midnight
that's not not not a very good timer day
for this this account um this account is
limited by budget so I would immediately
scrap the weekends personally um there's
a couple in here that are you know that
are under but compared to the rest of
the week it's it's clear that the
weekend this it's pretty safe to to
disable your ads on the weekend and in
addition 6: a.m. is not looking too
great either there's a there's a few
other requirements we can do here in
that
Monday uh
Wednesday and Thursday and Friday we can
actually start this
account sorry Start those days an hour
later than the rest because they're not
looking too good and you'll see some
other little issues we've got weird one
but not weird Friday 7:00 everyone's
going home surely so sorry 5:00 um
conversions do actually pick back up
there which is interesting people get
home can't wait to convert
brilliant so we've got this data we've
now visualized it and we understand it
and there's a clear course of action in
that we we need to sort out these uh
these timings and this is where we go
back to the schedule in your account and
tweak to
suit okay so I've just jumped back into
the the AdWords account here and I want
to go to the settings and add schedule
and actually this wasn't planned by the
way I haden't looked at this account but
we if we just jump back to our data so
we saw that um 6 a.m. in particular
across the whole week and 7 with well
with the exception of Friday but let's
say six and seven uh because this
account is limited by budget so we want
to move that budget into the stronger
areas six and seven were were failing
this account and if we just jump back in
here it looks like my team's actually
moved this uh move the goalpost on me
cuz this is actually now 8:00 a.m. um
but you'll see here total removed so
historically there was some spend in
those uh alternative time
ranges but that's good so we're on top
of it um however the one thing we aren't
on top of is the weekend again we've got
Saturday and Sunday running here jumping
back to our spreadsheet we can see that
Saturday and Sunday are pretty rubbish
let's face it now this is a business
case for you you know do you want phone
calls emails transactions at the weekend
fair enough this client kind of does but
I think we could argue to them actually
unless they want to spend more because
they're budget Limited in the week we're
better off you know letting them have a
quiet weekend which they probably
appreciate and getting more conversions
in the week so we could literally jump
in here uh and remove those but I'm
going to discuss it with them first yeah
this is live
um the other thing I need to warn you of
don't start making too many changes too
soon I I'd go for a a more broad Strokes
approach so finding uh particular hour
ranges or day ranges that just don't
work and remove those because they will
have a KnockOn effect to your remaining
active hours of day day of week so just
you know baby steps also when you change
your ad schedule this this button's a
little bit misleading because it says
you know Plus ad schedule so when I do
that what this is actually showing me is
the current live ad schedule so if I
remove these in here thinking that or I
just want to add in a something for
Tuesday and I'll remove the rest and
save it you will over write your live
schedule so you need to add to this and
another thing as well let's say I wanted
to um bid up Monday at 2: a.m. for
whatever reason you've then got to set a
pre 2 a.m. period and a post 12: a.m.
period on your Monday so you'd have
essentially have um two or more Monday
schedules and what that allows you to do
is you'd get an additional time slot in
here which you could increase or
decrease bids and that's when you go
really granular so you're literally
selecting you know certain regions of
the day where you're increasing your
your bids to
suit this so for example there's there's
a few areas in here that are excelling
like um what is this 10 a.m. looks
pretty good even through to sort of 1112
so you could take that region um across
Monday through to Wednesday and add a
schedule into to suit but you know
that's going quite granular pick out
these dirty red points first that are
wasting your money and sort those out
and then come back and do this this
whole scenario you know a few months
down the line when you've had time to to
collect the data and that's it and that
answers the question of what's the best
time of day and day of week to convert
so don't Google it don't listen to best
practices don't listen to other people
because they're not looking at your data
use your own data it takes 10 15 minutes
of your time at the most even if you're
you know you're not an Excel officient
AO uh to identify the facts based on
your business and that's important
there's there's a lot of conjecture out
there a lot of best practices that just
don't suit everyone so do that and uh
listen to yourself listen to your own
data okay so I hope you enjoyed the
video and I appreciate any likes shares
and of course drop any comments in if
you need any assistance I'm here to help
until next time catch you then cheers